(26) Cursor Tutorial for Beginners (AI Code Editor) - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ocMOZpuAMw4

Transcript:
(00:00) Today we're checking out cursor AI. An AI powered code editor that promises to make your development significantly easier. Now, I've been using this for the past few weeks. It's pretty interesting, and I wanted to make a quick tutorial on it to share with you what I've learned and some of the best practices that you can apply, especially if you're a more beginner programmer and you haven't used a ton of these AI tools before.
(00:22) You don't know exactly how they work and how to get the best results out of them. So with that said, let's dive into it and let's learn about how to use cursor AI. Now, at this point, I'm going to assume that you've downloaded it. If you haven't, give it a shot. It's free. There also is a paid version if you want some more features and unlimited usage, but I'd recommend even if you're an experienced developer, because it is pretty cool.
(00:42) And it kind of makes you question how you've been working in the past, and if this is something that you might want to switch to. Anyways, once you've got cursor, I open what I recommend doing is just opening a new folder. So to do that you can go to file and then open folder. And then from here you can just make a new folder on your desktop for example, and open it up.
(01:00) That's because a lot of beginners actually just work in whatever the default folder is, that it starts you in, and then they can kind of lose their work if they don't know where that folder location is, or it can be a bit more difficult to get back to it now, especially if you're a beginner here. What I'd recommend doing before you start using any of the features that I'm going to show you, is making a little bit of a plan.
(01:19) AI works best at solving really small, discrete, detailed tasks. The more specific you can be, the more context and information you give it, the better results you're going to get. You'll notice if you just ask it to do something like generate me a to do list application or give me a portfolio website, or you give it like a really general 1 or 2 sentence long task, you can get wildly different results and something that you're not looking for at all.
(01:45) And once it starts going in one direction, it can kind of branch and just bring you all over the place. If you don't know what you actually want. So make sure you know what you want. You have a clear vision of what it is that you want to build, and I highly recommend at least jotting down some notes or even drawing out a picture of what you want the user interface, at minimum to look like, because that's really going to help guide you through this process.
(02:06) Anyways, let's imagine you've got a plan at this point. You know what you want to do, and you've kind of thought about it, at least for a few minutes. The first feature I want to show you here is the compose feature now, or the composer feature, whatever you want to call it. Now, in order to enable this, you're going to have to go to file and go to Preferences Cursor Settings and then click on features.
(02:27) Here. Now scroll down you should see the composer. And then you can enable it by just selecting enabled I think by default is disabled. So that's why I'm mentioning that to you. Okay. So now that we've got that what we can do is press control AI. And that's going to open up the composer view. If you're on Mac it's going to be command AI.
(02:44) Now this is what can actually edit multiple files at the same time and create new files for you. So this is what I like to start with when I'm generating a brand new application. And then if I want to do a major feature change or there's something that's going to apply to a ton of different applications or, sorry, ten different files, I'll use this.
(03:02) Okay. So first thing I'm going to do, I'm just going to open the control panel. So it's a bit larger. And I can kind of see this here. And I'm going to ask it exactly what I want it to do. All right. So I've written a quick prompt here. You guys can read through it if you want. But the important thing is that I'm specifying exactly what I want it to do.
(03:16) And I'm telling it what framework, languages, etc. I want it to use. Now, if you don't know, you can ask it to recommend to you which ones you should use, but I do recommend doing a bit of research before you just dive into this and use like a random language or a random framework, and you can actually ask other AIS or even the one inside of this app, which I'll show you in a minute.
(03:36) Hey, I want to build this type of application. What's the simplest way to do that? And then I can give you some recommendations. Point is, I'm asking it that I want to use express, which is a JavaScript framework for the backend, SQLite for storing the recipes, which is my database, and I want to use JavaScript, HTML and CSS with tailwind for the frontend.
(03:54) Okay. So I'm just going to hit enter here. And what's going to happen is it's going to start generating a ton of different files for me. So it will give me some instructions because it can't quite do everything like running for example, terminal commands. But it can generate a majority of the applications.
(04:07) So let me zoom out a little bit, just so that we can see this a bit better. Okay. And let's go back here. All right. So you can see that it has generated the server for me. We have the index. We have style. We have script. We'll just wait for that to finish. And then we can actually just accept all of these changes and it will apply to our app.
(04:27) All right so I've finished. Now I can go and I can look at all of these files. I can ask it for revisions to change things around pretty much whatever I want. And then I can just accept all of these changes, or I can accept one file at a time. So I'm going to go accept all. And this is very similar to what you do in like a GitHub pull request or something.
(04:44) and you can see that it's going to generate these files for me. So let me get out of the composer view. Now I have my index, my script, my styles and my server. Okay. So that is the first feature that is the composer very useful for generating bigger features, a lot of code getting you started, but sometimes you can get a little bit crazy.
(05:00) And also it's difficult to review all of the code that's inside of there. So I want to show you the next feature that I found myself using the most. And this is the kind of the general chat view. I'm not sure exactly what they call it, but if you hit control L or command L, you're going to get into this chat.
(05:15) Now in here, you don't actually have to ask anything coding related, but this does have access to the entire context of your code base. So you can ask about a particular file and it can go and look for that. Or you can specify context yourself. So what I can do is press add for example. And I can add different files.
(05:32) So if I want to ask a question about my server file I just put server inside of here. Now I can also do things like ask it to search on the web. I can give it an image. I can what does it link? Different documentation. So if I go to app mentioned you see I can give it a PDF file. I can give it a folder code.
(05:48) Web docs get like there's so many different options here. And the more context you can give this, the better it's going to perform. So feel free to go in here and mention a specific file or mention, like a website that you want it to go and read from. For example, if there's like a brand new feature or framework, you could link the, documentation to that and then get it to read that before it generates you the response.
(06:11) Okay. So anyways, so let's say we want it to do something inside of server. So I can say server. I say okay this is nice, but I want to add for example more recipes. So I'll say okay great. Can you add some new recipes? Please make them more unique. Okay. So let's hit enter and let's see what we get. All right.
(06:32) So we got some code here and we could just manually copy this in. We also can press apply. If we do that it's actually going to make a diff inside of the file. So you can see that it's showing us exactly what it's going to add. right inside of here. And this is completely different from something like ChatGPT, where if you had, you know, comments like existing code or insert sample data or whatever, you need to actually, like, copy parts of this and kind of splice it into your file here.
(06:58) This can just do it for you. So what I'm going to do is just accept this. And you see that now we just get more recipes added inside of here. And by the way, if I didn't like this, I could just reply to it directly here with this ask button. Now it's referencing this particular response. And I can say something like, hey, I don't like this recipe, swap it out with this one.
(07:16) So just a really quick way to inject that context. And again, the context is so important when you're coding, you want to give this as much information as you possibly can. That's how you get the best replies. So that's the chat window. I think it's pretty straightforward. You can mention the context, you can choose the different model you want to chat with.
(07:33) You can link documentation. And while we're here, I will mention that there is actually the option to kind of search through your code base. So you can just do the default chat which is hitting enter or pressing this button. Or you can do something like say, you know, where are my recipes defined. So if you're looking for a specific piece of code, maybe you're in a huge code base.
(07:52) It's kind of difficult to navigate. And then you can press on this button and it's actually going to search through the whole code base. You can also do control plus enter or command plus enter, obviously more effective in a larger code base. But you see it now tells us kind of where this is and gives us links to the different variables to the files.
(08:09) And notice I can actually click on these and go to exactly where they are. which is pretty interesting. So if I go to sample recipes brings me to that variable. Anything that's blue is clickable. And it's really, kind of easy to navigate through the code base. Okay. So that's the chat window. A lot of stuff you can do here, especially with the context.
(08:26) But now what I want to talk about is kind of the inline completions. So while we're typing code like let's say we actually want to, you know, edit something ourselves. So if we go to, for example, index.html, maybe what I want to do is add another select box for some reason. So I'm going to say okay select.
(08:43) And then notice right away it gives me really long autocompletion. So if I hit tab that's going to complete it for me I can press enter. Go inside of here. It's already given me a bunch of options and I can generate code significantly faster using these. So this is kind of the same one that I already had.
(08:59) But if I wanted to, I can change this around and rather than mood select I'm going to go maybe time select or something and then we'll have an option. And what else are we going to do here. Breakfast lunch dinner okay. Let me just press tab correctly here. And you can see that I can kind of insert those inside.
(09:19) Nice. Now let's say maybe I just want to modify this block of code here. I can highlight on it. And then I have two options. I can chat with it Ctrl L or I can do control K. And Ctrl K is going to bring up kind of the inline editor. So if I do Ctrl K I can give this instructions on what I want it to do with this.
(09:37) So I could even just say something like delete this. I don't know why I would do that, but I could. And you can see now it generates the diff and then I can accept that or I can reject it. Now if we go back here, I'll say add some more detailed options please. Okay. Let's hit enter. And then it again will give me the diff.
(09:56) And you can see that it has early breakfast breakfast lunch etc.. Okay let's accept that. And there you go. Now we have our options. So as kind of a mini recap, if you want to generate a ton of files you're creating new files. You're doing like a big feature change. It's going to be touching a lot of the areas of code.
(10:12) Then if you open up the composer with control I or command I, you can make a new composer or use an existing one, and then you can read through all of these files like something like a GitHub pull request, and kind of make changes that way. Now if you want really smaller kind of targeted modifications, you can just highlight lines of code and you can hit, for example, control K when you do this right in line in your code, that opening up that other window, you can make the change.
(10:39) So this is like a really fast way to change it in the editor when you know exactly what you want. And then if you want something that's kind of in between that and maybe doesn't even have to do with a code change, you can open up the chat window. Now here you can ask pretty much anything that you want. You can get it to recommend changes and then directly apply those.
(10:56) You can also ask it to for example explain code. So maybe, you know I copy this and I paste this inside of here. Notice that context is automatically added when I do this. And I can say hey, can you, you know, explain these lines, please. Okay. And now it's going to go there, explain it and kind of give me a description of what's going on.
(11:15) So the chat window is more for that. Whereas in here it's to make a change and actually modify a section of the code in a more targeted approach. So that's cool. The last major feature I want to show you is that we can actually use images to generate code as well. So let's do that. Okay. So I just grabbed a random image here from the web of like a really simple login form.
(11:36) Now obviously you maybe take like a figma file or something, a designer sending to you. But the point is you can take an image and you can pass it here and get it to generate code based on that. So what I can do is pick the image. So let's go. I think it's this one right here. It's going to show up I'm going to say can you please make a new HTML file that contains this form, make it look exactly like this.
(12:01) And let's see what we get to a generated some HTML. But notice if I press on apply, it's trying to apply that into my index.html. Now I wanted a new file and that's one of the things that this kind of gets wrong a lot in the chat. It's not going to make the new file for you unless you use the composer. So I need to make a new file myself.
(12:19) So I'm just going to go form dot HTML okay. And then I'm going to apply this. So I'm going to click cancel. Go back into form. When forms open it's going to default to using that. And I'm going to go to apply notice it. Now says form dot HTML. And then you'll see that it kind of pops in here. And then I can accept this.
(12:36) So I'm going to hit control shift y to accept that. And then let's open this up because I want to see what it actually looks like. So let's reveal in File Explorer. Let's open the form. And that is pretty impressive that that is already created. So if we go back to the image I was not expecting it to be that good.
(12:53) let me open up the image again. This is what the image looks like. And this is the result that we got. Now, sure, there's a bit of an issue with the spacing, but at least this like diagonal line got filled in, which I was expecting it not to do. Yes, there's some issue with the padding in the font, but generally that's pretty close.
(13:09) and that's pretty impressive. Again, I was not expecting it to give me that good of a result, so that was pretty impressive. And overall cursor has been super cool to use and it's definitely supercharged my productivity. Now, with that in mind, I'm only able to use this really effectively because I already know how to code now.
(13:25) Sure, you can use this as a complete beginner with minor experience, but it's going to be significantly harder to actually get anything done because if you do get stuck, it just really is a little bit of a nightmare. to try to figure out what's going wrong with the AI, fixing the files. And a lot of times I do find myself having to dive in there and kind of make the change myself.
(13:43) Now, with that in mind, if you do want to learn how to code or you want to learn even how the limbs work or get more into data science, machine learning, kind of all of those interesting and new up and coming fields. I recommend that you check out the sponsor of today's video. Brilliant. Brilliant is where you learn by doing with thousands of lessons in math, data analysis, programing and AI.
(14:04) They adopt a first principles approach, ensuring you understand the why behind each concept. Every lesson is interactive, engaging you in hands on problem solving, which is proven to be six times more effective than simply watching lectures. The content is developed by top notch educators, researchers, and professionals from renowned institutions like MIT, Caltech, and Google.
(14:25) Brilliant emphasizes enhancing your critical thinking abilities through active problem solving rather than memorization. As you learn specific subjects, you're simultaneously training your mind to think more effectively. Consistent daily learning is crucial and brilliant makes it effortless with their bite sized lessons allowing you to acquire meaningful knowledge in just a few minutes each day.
(14:45) Perfect for replacing idle screen time. Additionally, brilliant offers a comprehensive range of computer science and Python courses, as well as extensive AI workshops guiding you from a complete beginner to an expert through practical, hands on lessons. Try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days by visiting brilliant.org agtech with Tim or click the link in the description.
(15:09) You'll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.